# TSC Meeting Notes April 14, 2022

## Attendees
* Rory Bolt, Remi Brasga, Sean Stead, Scott Stetzer, H Konta, Eric Ries, Farshad M, Clay Mayers, Todd Benzies, Fredrick Knight, Grant Mackey, Erich Haratsch, Aditya Bhamidi, Ihab Hamadi, Jimmy Gomez, Rick Vasquez, Pichai Balaji

## Meeting Summary
* Welcome message - Sean Stead
* Linux Foundation (Todd Benzies) confirmation project, anti-trust policy and invited all to join and follow
* Introduction to SEF - Rory Bolt
* Eric Ries offers comments on the benefits and value props of SEF for SSD vendors
* Rory Bolt presented SEF overview, basic timeline, governance, important links for docs, gh, and .org
* Q&A  start with RocksDB, File Systems, MySQL and request for comments
* Eric Ries added executive sponsor support from Kioxia, added SEF offers flexible deliverables for manufacturers and flexible deployment for developers/users including ZNS, smartFTL and the like. 
* Rory also added development is possible for computational storage, if/when needed
* Frederick Night asked about the details of files moving in and out and what type of hardware and applications are supported or new apps needed? 
  - What is the implementation (translating fm-to) underlying the technology vs block or ZNS protocols?
  - What am I buying  - if it's not a NVMe device, what is it ?
    - Answered hardware is PCIe and the NVMe behind the scenes details are leveraged
  - HDD moved from CHS to LBA to reduce geometry issues
    - SEF is moving back to geometry, do you see it going in the future back to a logical addressing approach?
* Pichai Balaji added Marvell perspective
  - What is the controller architecture
  - How much is done by the host vs. in the device
* Fred Night wondered if devices will be geometry constrained 
  - Rory identified control by host is lightweight 
  - Pichai asked about background activities using active power
    - Rory â€“ yes and environment dependent 
* Aditya commented support from Akamai but no specific project at this time
 - Tail latency question
 - EXT4 support would be nice

## Action Items
* Post PDF to all who registered and thank attendees
* Schedule next TSC meeting
